Did you have any favorite instructors during your
student days?
Yes, D.B. Cofer was one in English, and my freshman
English, I got credit for that, but I had to take a
one-hour lecture course that was called
contemporary civilization, I believe it was,
that, not F.L., but Thomas, who was
in the engineering, I mean the English
department, taught. I enjoyed that. Probably one
who really didn't have a course on him, but took a
visit to course, was Fritz Hensel. and Nestor
McGinnis. Now they were off in landscape
architecture and floriculture, but I was
interested in that too. And being a regular,
because I had credit for this English, each year I
was able to take one or two courses extra of
something that I was particularly interested in.
So I took Nestor McGinnis and Hensel's course in
landscape ornamentals. And Dr. F. E. Giesecke, I
was very fond of him. He had been here many years
earlier as head of the engineering drawing
department and then migrated to the University of
Texas as the head of their architecture
department. My junior year, I believe it was, he
returned to A&M as head of the department of
architecture, college architect, and director
of the engineering experiment station. I worked
very close with him my senior year particularly
and then for quite a number of years afterwards and
employed at the university or college at that
time.
Si Sanston was another one I enjoyed. I had to have a
course over in the civil engineering department
in engineering contracts and law.
What did the students do for entertainment and
recreation?
I think I might preface this by a statement made by a
brother of mine. My next younger brother came to
A&M after he graduated.
No, I've got my brothers mixed up. My youngest
brother came to A&M one year and he got so strongly
in love that he dropped out that year and married
and wound up in the Corps of Engineers and then
later was inducted into the Army and after the war
he came back and decided to go back to school and he
looked at the University of Texas and looked at A&M
and then when he was visiting over here with me
later we were walking across the campus and I made
some comment about I think we had orange no parking
signs painted on the curbs. And I mentioned to him
that the students one time refused to go to class
because they had to pass over these orange painted
signs. And he says, well, that's the difference
between the University of Texas and A&M. They have
something to do over in Austin. And over at A&M,
they've got to make their entertainment and
pleasures out of whatever they can find around
here. Well, there wasn't a lot to do at A&M, in the
social end, really. Wednesday nights and
Saturday nights, I had a picture show in Assembly
Hall, which was on the site of the present chapel.
This was built during the
First World War. It was a wooden stucco building.
So almost everybody could rake up 10 cents or 15
cents. Usually went to the movie at night,
Wednesday night and Saturday night. Freshmen had
an interesting sideline for Saturday night
because it was custom then, at least in the fall
semester, for freshmen to air out. after the
theater, after the showing there. By airing out,
this meant they had to leave the dormitory and go
out anywhere they could find a place and spend the
night sleeping out in the woods. I remember the
first Saturday night I had on the campus.
For some reason or other, I took out toward the
east, which was down at that time back in the horse
barns where the system administration building
is now, and found a farm back over there that was
growing watermelons. So I had a watermelon to
settle my stomach that night before I tried to bed
down in the patch out there somewhere to sleep.
eased back in the dormitory somewhere between 2
and 3 o'clock in the morning when most everyone had
gone to sleep. But this was a common thing for
Saturday nights, the upperclassmen airing out
the fish. And Sunday afternoons, the big event was
to go down and see
the Southern Pacific train come in.
In the early part of the year, quite often on
Sundays, particularly good weather, fish band or
a fish group including some musical instruments
and the rest armed with brooms had the job of going
down and to the railroad station and sweeping out
the train much to the dismay and surprise of the
passengers on the train but while it was here they
went in and swept out the train not to say the dismay
of the railroad of course they usually wore some
outlandish costume. They were not in full
uniform. And other things, you might wander
around and take a hike around in the woods. Some of
the ponds, there used to be a lake down in what was
called College Park.
That's in the corner of Jersey and Weldon Road.
Well, Jersey and Dexter, yes, in that corner.
College Park, that was the only area that there
were any private homes
at that time, and there were a few there. But there
was a lake in there that later was drained during
the predominance of malaria in this area. Well,
that was, I take it, a privately owned lake? It was
owned by the Southside Development Company, who
was a real estate organization of a number of
faculty people. Dan Scotes was head of ag
engineering, and I started to call him Wheezy
Clark. That was his name, common name. Dr. F.B.
Clark was a member of it.
I can't think of his name. His wife is still alive, a
little chemistry prof at the sector. A number of
the college staff had gone together to try to set up
some place where a person might build a home. And
they had built a number of what were called company
homes that they rented to faculty people.
Was there a swimming pool in the basement of the Y?
There was a swimming pool in the basement of the Y,
that's right. This was after the P.L. Downs
Auditorium was built. The YMCA floored it over and
put a bowling alley there first and then had a few
billiard tables. You might go to the Y on the
weekend and play some billiards or go swimming in
the small indoor pool.
And of course, the big activity, of course, were
all the various balls that were held on the campus.
And many times, the entire main dining room and
annex of the Speza Hall were just packed and jammed
with participants. At that time, of course,
people danced with each other, arm to arm or body to
body, or what you might call it. The poor girl who
danced more than ten steps or so with one chap
thought she was a wallflower, maybe. Because
there were, of course, a predominance of stags
there, but many of them were programmed dances.
And the big balls, of course, were the football
weekends and the Ross volunteer dances in the
spring area. Was the RV hop only open to members of
the RVs? They usually had their activities seemed
like three days. I was not an RV and at one or two of
those dances I believe they permitted others to
come. Then of course we had the big Bozar Ball which
is the architectural club's annual dance and all
of these dances There were usually very extensive
decorations erected in the main ballroom of
Sabeza Hall. And of course the dance after the
Thanksgiving game was usually almost impossible
because it was so thick you could hardly move in
that time. I would imagine you had former students
as well as students there. Texas and A&M and
everybody, anybody wanted to go and want those and
all you had to do was have the price of the ticket to
get in those dances. And then of course the various
military organizations had their dances and some
of the other clubs.
And then there was the staff and faculty dances
about once a month I guess. And occasionally we had
entertainment
series, anything from an opera up and down in Guyon
Hall. Of course, these were never, you know, more
than four or five of them a year. Of course, on
Sunday morning you had a march in the chapel,
which was compulsory at that time. And that was in
Guyon? That was in Guyon Hall. The old chapel was
discontinued. It was a chapel after Guyon Hall was
erected in what, 1920, somewhere in there? 18, I
believe. 19, 18, 20. And the old chapel became the
armory for many years. It was the armory when I was
here. And I have a small rifle range in there, a
little range.
This was later moved to a metal shed down on the side
of the present laundry. There was a laundry, it was
west of the laundry because it was discontinued,
because the
bullet stops in there got worn in and a stray bullet
or two went through the laundry, so they shut that
down. That would be a factor, wouldn't it? I bought
her plate in there for stopping the bullets, but
after they shot so many times in the same place.
Did you have any student theatrical groups or
anything of that nature to put on plays or was that a
later development?
I don't remember any at all. We had not an actor's
club, there was a scribbler's club that Tommy Mayo
and Dr. Summey particularly in the English
department sponsored. I wasn't much a writer, but
I enjoyed going to the meetings. But I don't think
there were any dramatic things. Now there was, at
that time we had the Greek Club, the forerunner of
the singing cadets. Our principal job under the
direction of the band director then, Richard
Dunn, later called Colonel Dunn. We sang for
chapel services on Sunday morning. That's about
all we tried. The Scribblers Club did what? Oh, it
was a club that those people who were interested in
trying to write a little and studying various
writings, And as I say, Dr. and Ms. Summey were
particular sponsors of that club. There were lots
of clubs, of course, different as they are now, and
different both organizations, hometown clubs,
and
some along the educational lines. I did a little
checking in your senior Longhorn, and there was an
indication that you were a member of the Dome Club.
Well, the dome club, that was so called because the
senior architectural students in the
engineering phase of architecture
had their drafting tables and classes up in the
unfinished dome of the academic building, the old
main building. So we were members of the Dome Club.
It really wasn't a formal organization, except
that meant you spent most of your senior year up in
the Dome. So that would have been seniors in
architecture. Right.
We know that a goodly number of students at various
times had jobs of one type or another on campus. Did
you have any jobs while you were a student? I had two
particular jobs. One of them for a while I worked
for Missouri
Pacific Railroad as a night clerk. My job was
mainly to take off the mail and the baggage trunks
and things that came in during the night and put
them in the warehouse at the station. I remember
one afternoon I was on duty though, and I had a
rather unexpected job. A horse came in by express
in a crate. And for a while I was at loss how I was
going to get that horse out of the baggage car, but
we managed. I guess the biggest thing, though, was
unloading a bale of cotton by myself one night. I
don't know why it came in, but there's many
unexpected things were coming in because of
research activities. You'd normally get it at a
freight station instead of coming in by express.
Then
my senior year, I worked, well, I worked this
preceding summer At A&M, before our junior and
senior years, architecture students had to come
back to A&M three weeks early to take summer
practice in architecture. And I remember the
first year I worked on the side, the Ag Experiment
Station needed some people to pick cotton. Well,
this wasn't ordinary picking. You were paid by the
hour and not by the pound, and you picked the bowls
off each stalk of it. put them in a separate sack
because they were working on some genetics
problem. Then my senior year I was taking a course
in mechanical equipment of buildings under Dr.
Gieske who was very prominent in the field of
heating, ventilating, air conditioning. And he
had some curves that he had published in some
paper. He gave us three pence for computing the
friction head in pipes when you're sizing your hot
water heating systems, and this paper is rather
old and deteriorated, so one day I made a tracing,
redrew this on tracing cloth and made a bunch of
blueprints and passed them on among my
classmates. One day Dr. Kiewski saw some student,
I believe it was George Glover,
using one of these and he wanted to know where he got
it. And he said, well, Howard Badgett made it. So
his having seen that, he rather liked the work I
did, I guess. He offered me a job of illustrating
Experiment Station bulletins that he and Mr. E.W.
Steele, who was head of the Municipal and Sanitary
Engineering Department at the time, and books or
papers Dr. Gieske had written, asked me to draw the
illustrations from them. So this really led to my
staying with A&M after graduation. Like during my
senior year, one day Dr. Gieske asked me, would I
like to take graduate work? I said, well, I'd
always been interested in a lot of courses. Of
course, that was my idea of graduate work then.
You'd pick out a bunch of courses you liked and
take. So I said, yes. He said he thought he'd give me
a scholarship, and he did. He got a Portland cement
fellowship that I did my graduate work on in
research and mechanical equipment of buildings.
And following the completion of that year, well,
he offered me a job with the Engineering
Experiment Station at A&M.
And you stayed with them for? I stayed with the
Engineering Experiment Station until I went on
active duty during World War II in October 1940.
What types of things did you do for the Experiment
Station? We were studying to determine the loss of
head, the friction head. in new types of fittings
that had come out then. Mueller Rice Company and
some of the other rice and copper companies had
developed
copper pipe and fittings called sweat fittings.
Streamline was the trade name. And they had no
known friction head losses for these. We did a lot
of work in that field. We did work in studying the
comfort zone in air conditioning in conjunction
with the American Society of Heating and
Ventilating Engineers. They had a comfort zone
chart which they had prepared up in the north and
the east. This is a combination of temperature,
humidity, and air movement in which various areas
of people are comfortable in. But they weren't
sure that this would apply all over the country. So
we set up a laboratory at A&M to make a comparative
study to see if there was any difference in
people's reaction to various conditions here
than in the east.
We did quite a bit of work on initial early work on
what was called panel warming. which had been
developed in England and Germany, where you had
pipes through your floor at that time, concrete
floors usually, and passed warm water through it
to get radiant heating. And we did a lot of work in
cast iron fittings. Friction losses were
computed in those days and we did some actual
experiments to measure the loss of various
velocities of water flow. We did quite a bit of work
that time also in various methods and phases of
what is now called waste water treatment,
sewage treatment.
There was, Dr. Gieske, as I said, was a combination
of, his combination included college architect.
There was not a building or a project on the campus
that he had charge of that didn't include some type
of experiment in building construction. So
generally we were setting up something of that
sort, I remember, down in the chemistry building,
the first wing, which was built by the university,
by the college then, rather than contract work. We
measured the settlement of the building as the
soil compacted from the weight of the building.
Under the tower, which has since been removed on
the old Petroleum Geology Building, which
included the Engineering Experiment Station in
there too, We put soil pressure cells under the
footings of the tower
in order to study the pressure bulb, the
distribution of pressure under a footing.
In a sense, you made the whole campus a laboratory.
This is very much the way Dr. Gieske worked. There
wasn't anything he did that wasn't an experiment
or to prove or disprove some assumption or fact.
Well, in his position as head of the engineering
experiment station, he was obligated to
experiment. And as college architect, he was
responsible for all the building construction.
As college architect, did he also design the
buildings? Oh, yes. He had an architectural
staff, which Phil Norton, an A.M. graduate, was
his
chief, I won't say engineer, chief architect, but
he was in charge basically of the day-to-day
operation of the office. And then in the early 30s,
32, 34, and 5, when we, got a bit of money for
expansion, at which time the Ag Engineering
Building, the System Administration, the
Petroleum Geology, the Veterinary Science
Building Group, the Animal Industries Building,
and some others were erected. Rather than farm out
the work to architects over the country, the board
agreed that the college was set up of its own
architectural engineering office and at that
time we had we inherited Ross Hall which had been
condemned my senior year in 1929 as a dormitory
because they thought it was going to fall in and we
tied it up with a few tie bars through the building
and things and used it for many years thereafter
but this building was largely architects,
engineers, and other things there who designed
these buildings. Prior to that, the office
designed the initial stadium, a section of the
concrete stadium which was erected in about 1930,
I think it started. And Hart Hall, Walton Hall, The
library, original Cushing Library, was designed
by that office. That was the early office before
the expansion for the 33 group.
You said the college got a little bit of money. What
was the source of this money? I think it was the
beginning of the oil money, I believe. That would
be from the University Available Fund?
University Available Fund. I believe that was the
source of it. I don't know where they got so much.
You made mention of a 33 group. Well, these were
designed and built in 1932, 34, and 5. So you had a
half a dozen. You had the System Administration
Building, the Ag Engineering Building, the
Veterinary Science Group, which is now Civil
Engineering, the Animal Industries Building,
second wing of the chemistry building.
What else? Well, the library was started in 1929.
The
library was built on the site of the old chemistry
building where Dr. Harrington was one of my
freshman chemistry profs. I had my chemistry lab
there. This was demolished in the summer of 1930. I
remember very well a classmate of mine who had
difficulty in chemistry and told me he wanted to be
sure and get his brick out of that building because
he had flunked chemistry one time and he wanted a
brick. So I got him a brick out of that building.
Oh, I know what I was going to say. In capacity of
designing the buildings that we've just been
talking about, did the college architect's
office also do, well, I'll call it the decorative
designing for the exterior?
I did the complete building. In the big expansion
in the early 30s,
architect named Sam Vosper who did the primary
design and detailed so much of the work
that was done on these buildings. He followed
largely a lot of the old
architectural styles, but he brought it up to date
by making these using common things for instance
in the
veterinary science building some of the
decorative moldings and things were horse heads
or cow heads or pig heads or such as that he tried to
make in the building in the decoration something
that was indicative of the type of activity was to
go on in the building. He did all the original work
along with his helpers of course and one of them at
that time was Elo Urmanoski who has been quite
prominent up at Texas Tech in their landscape
floor culture department for many years.
They designed system administration building.
In fact, at that time when we used artificial
stone, the artificial stone was made on the campus
here. We set up a stone plan around and then one of
the, on the system building, the stone was made
right about where the Texas flag is now, cast for
that building.